# Overview of Parameters

Changed the image generation from having labeled axes to having no labels but each cell is separated by a gutter.

I also removed the stringified output from the commands.

# Directional Change

Very positive. Not necessarily in success rate but in "averageNumMessages", which has important implications.

# Numbers

```
{
  "numExperiments": 31,
  "numSuccessful": 25,
  "numFailures": 6,
  "averageProgress": 80.64516129032258,
  "averageFailureProgress": 0,
  "averageNumMessages": 20,
  "averageSuccessMessages": 21.44,
  "averageFailureMessages": 14,
  "averageToolCalls": 3.5806451612903225,
  "averageFailureToolCalls": 0,
  "averageSuccessToolCalls": 4.44,
  "model": "gpt-4o-mini"
}
```

# Failure Modes

Every single failure was a Y_OUT_OF_BOUNDS error, and every single OOB was x or y = 8. This makes sense since we removed the labels and it has no way of knowing whether to use 0 or 1 indexing.

# Notes

avgNumMessages was cut by like 70%, which is huge. I think it indicates that the model is way more confident. It seems like the model just throws out the answer in one or 2 shots. Of course this data is very rough, but this result indicates strongly the impact of a not-too-packed image.


# Next

The obvious next thing to do is to add the labels back in. One thing I'm curious about is how the model could learn what indexing to use. What if I provide tools to get like "gridSpecs" or "getMinX", "getMaxX", etc. That seems more general than providing the axes. But also I feel like we can just assume the axes will always be labeled. Idk. I'm going to go with the tool approach for a couple reasons. It feels less brittle, for vague-ish reasons:

- generating the images from a software dev standpoint is very hacked together ATM
- "give the model a tool" feels like "the thing I want to do, in general
"

Idk, but I'm gonna go the tool route.

EDIT: Another thing I could do is a more generalized feedback mechanism. When you parse the tool calls' inputs, you should be able to give the model retry capability.

