# 

so what we want to be able to do is

- state -> state
- start computation (create params)
- apply computation (merge params)
- branch (try more than one thing)
- merge (select a branch)
- switch (condition?)

Do we write the operators and try to get the high-level working, then try to get
the LLM to generate the operators?

Or, do we try to get the LLM to generate working operators, and then move on the
from there?

The __LATTER__ seems more better, right? Less dependencies to build.

But also we have to decide where do we draw the line on what code to write vs
generate?

Ok yeah so I think I'm missing one layer.

We have 

- generated functions
- hardcoded functions
- generated tools
- hardcoded tools
- computations/agents

And I'm missing the hardcoded tools layer?

What I'm thinking about is

- hardcode DSL primitives
- generated DSL primitives
- hardcoded DSL programs
- generated DSL programs

and then the generation of the program is in itself a program? ok maybe getting
ahead of myself. but ok

__WHAT DO I DO NEXT???__

Maybe I guess I just give the LLM like crop/rotate/extend/fill and see what it
does? What primitives do I want to give it specifically?

- crop
- rotate
-

For some reason I really feel like I need to give it a

- select
- write
- apply

loop ability.

Ok the literal very first thing I'm going to do is give the LLM a "writePoints"
operator and see how many of the inputs it can correctly draw.

So in the /operators directory I have a bunch of just actual functions on
fields.

But an Operator according to my codebase is a high-level thing that an agent
will use during a run. But I need 2 different names...oh i've got it: primitive.
The literaly functions on fields are primitives.

Ok so I need to give the LLM what? 

--writePoints ?


__I WONDER IF I SHOULD CREATE SOMETHING LIKE AN ERROR_DETAILS_TOOL__

Every time there's a problem we would give the LLM something like 

{ id: string, description: string }

and the error tool would be  like


(errorId) => Record|string, string| or something like thing
